[Bumblebee] Uh…
Optimus?
You're being requested on the bridge.
Hmm. Thank you, Bumblebee.
I was just contemplating.
The Allspark is somewhere out there,
and it's because of my actions.
In my efforts
to protect Cybertron from Megatron,
I have done great harm.
You did what you thought
was best at the time.
I was mistaken, Bumblebee.
Now… [sighs]
I must do everything in my power
to return the Allspark to Cybertron.
[Bumblebee]
We must do everything in our power.
You're not in this alone, Optimus.
We?
Does this mean you now consider yourself
an Autobot?
[chuckles softly]
Guess so.
[Ratchet over comm]
Optimus Prime to the bridge.
Repeat. Prime to the bridge.
[dramatic music intensifying]
[theme music plays]
[Wheeljack] From what we can tell,
the Allspark's landed somewhere here,
and because of that Spacebridge explosion,
we ended up somewhere way over here.
At least, I think we're here.
[tablet beeping]
Even if we had enough energon
to make the journey,
we'd never get back in time
to save Cybertron.
Can't wait till you tell us the bad news.
Well, the Allspark's all the way
on the other side of the universe,
and we barely have enough energon
to fill a mug at MacAdam's.
-But…
-[Ratchet] We have a solution.
The Decepticons destroyed
all the Spacebridges on Cybertron,
but there's still a few out in space.
[tablet beeps]
I believe we've found one
in the Nebulon system.
[Prime] Excellent work.
Have you determined
if the Nebulon Spacebridge is active?
[chuckles] Now, that's the weird part.
According to Teletraan-1,
the Spacebridge is in a state of…
perpetual activation.
Someone left it on.
Who would have left it on?
[Prime] Can the Spacebridge be used
as a shortcut for the Allspark?
[Ratchet] As long as it's functional
and in one piece.
[Wheeljack]
We know it's functioning 'cause it's on.
Prime, there is one problem with our plan.
[Prime] We only have enough energon
to travel to Nebulon Station.
Exactly.
If we can't get the Spacebridge
at Nebulon working,
we'll be stuck out there.
Should the Spacebridge not work,
let us hope somewhere on that station
is some energon.
What if it was the Decepticons
that left it on?
Ironhide,
set course for the Nebulon system.
You got it, Prime.
And… Bumblebee is correct.
I am?
We do not know
who left the Spacebridge activated
or why.
Approach with caution.
Prepare for battle stations.
I must ask, how much further?
We're nearly deactivated.
I know you're low on energon,
and you've all been through a lot,
but we have to keep moving.
Is it wise to lead this many Decepticons
to the old theater?
[Elita] They're not a threat
to anyone in that condition.
-[beeping]
-We've got incoming!
[gasps] Seekers! Everyone scatter!
Take cover and hide!
[jet engines blasting]
They still search for us.
And they won't stop.
Eventually… you'll get used to it.
[jet engines whirring]
[Chromia] Clear.
For now.
Let's keep moving.
Approaching Nebulon space.
Oh, that's weird.
Have we arrived
at Nebulon Station, Ironhide?
Hmm… sort of.
[Ratchet] Now we know why the Spacebridge
has been active all this time.
How in the name of Prima
did the station end up
in that Spacebridge?
[Prime] Teletraan-1, full report.
[trilling]
[Teletraan-1]
Forty-two percent of Nebulon Station
has traveled through the Spacebridge.
Fifty-eight percent
remains in this region of space.
-[Prime] Are there life signs?
-[Teletraan-1] Negative.
Do you detect energon?
[Teletraan-1] Trace amounts
of energon are detected.
There's no way
we're getting through the Spacebridge
with that thing in the way.
[Prime] Hmm.
Alpha Trion used to say,
"We are the only obstacle
that blocks our way forward."
Great philosophy, Optimus,
but right now, that gigantic space station
is in the way, not us.
[Prime chuckles] He also used to say,
"Sometimes,
you just have to blow scrap up."
Ironhide… take us in.
-[distant jet engines blasting]
-Huh? Seekers! Incoming!
[Elita] Take cover!
[engines whirring]
-[Seekers transform]
-[grunting]
[weapon cocks]
Just had 'em. I know it!
Keep scanning.
Starscream wants their heads on a spike.
[Seeker 1 grunts]
-[gunfire]
-[Seeker 2 grunts]
[Seeker 3 grunting]
[jet engine blasts]
-Jetfire!
-On it!
[jet engines whirring]
What were you thinking?
[pants] It's us or them.
We're not gonna wait
for them to kill more of us.
That Seeker has our location.
This is our last refuge.
[dramatic music playing]
We were protecting ourselves.
We were trying to protect you.
If you're to stay here,
you don't fire on anyone
unless ordered to.
Understood?
[Scrapface sighs]
[jet engine whooshing]
[Jetfire transforms]
[grunts]
Is this where you say, "I told you so"?
[sighs] No.
This is where I tell you,
I think I took out that Seeker
before she could transmit our location.
[sighs] Good work.
And if I didn't,
we'll find out soon enough.
Power's offline.
Should I bring up the emergency backup?
Make it so, Wheeljack.
[tablet beeping]
[clanking]
[distant clanking echoes]
[growling]
Same readings as Teletraan.
The station appears to be empty.
[Autobot] Completely deserted?
Maybe they're on the other side
of the Spacebridge.
And where exactly is
the other side of the Spacebridge?
-Good question.
-Can't we just turn the Spacebridge off?
Wouldn't it cut the station in two
when the portal closes?
That's what I wanted to do,
but Spacebridges have a fail-safe
preventing shutdown
when a ship's passing through.
So… we can't turn it off
as long as the station is stuck in it?
[Prime] Not unless Ratchet
can override the controls.
Ratchet, have you reached
Spacebridge control?
Yeah, we're in.
It's odd, Prime.
No one's been here for cycles.
Any luck hacking into the system?
[sighs] Still locked out.
Optimus, it pains me to say this, but…
Wheeljack's plan is the best option.
[laughs] Told you.
[Ratchet] But his plan must be done
with absolute precision.
The tiniest miscalculation
could also destroy the Spacebridge.
[Prime] Understood, Ratchet.
-Keep us advised of your progress.
-[comm beeps]
[Prime] Wheeljack.
[sighs] As you all know,
the station's wedged in the Spacebridge
tighter than Perceptor's receptor.
So…
question is,
how best to clear the obstruction.
[chuckles] Implosion! Of course!
Uh, think of it like this.
We're performing precision surgery
on this space station -
a controlled implosion
that will sever it in two.
Wheeljack, determine the precise location
where each charge should be set.
We will then split into teams to deploy.
Bumblebee and I
will cross through the portal
and set charges on the other side.
Any questions?
Do you even know what's waiting on
the other side of that Spacebridge portal?
Blow the station in 20 astro-cycles…
whether we come back or not.
Understood.
You two, be careful.
[menacing music plays]
-Just a few more clicks that way.
-[tracker beeping]
Good.
Good?
You're not the one
wearing an explosive backpack
created by Wheeljack.
Good point.
[Sideswipe] The sooner we set these things
and get out of here, the better.
[Arcee] Assuming this goes right…
We blow this thing in the middle.
One half stays in our space,
the other half stays wherever,
and we're free to take the Ark through.
[charges clinking]
And if it goes wrong?
-[charge clinks]
-We blow up the Spacebridge.
The Ark is stuck out here,
along with what's left of the station,
we eventually run out of energon,
and our sparks fade into obscurity.
[charge clinks]
-[scoffs] No pressure.
-[clank]
[charges clinking]
[creature hisses]
[rattling]
[Bumblebee] So…
Ratchet couldn't retrieve any information
about where this Spacebridge
leads to, huh?
Hmm… I'm afraid not.
[Bumblebee] You ready?
[Bumblebee] Not what I expected.
We are within a planet's atmosphere.
Doesn't look so bad.
[tweeting]
[Bumblebee] Maybe everyone did come here.
Appearances can be more
than meets the eye.
-Proceed with caution.
-[Bumblebee] Got it.
[keypad beeps]
I still don't understand
how the space station ended up here.
[Wheeljack] Almost got it.
If you ask me,
I think they did it on purpose.
[charges trill]
You don't think it was an accident?
[loud thud]
-[Wheeljack] Hmm?
-[loud thud]
[rattling]
[creature] Plunderers.
Who?
-[loud thud]
-[rattling]
[creature growls] Trespassers.
-[weapons cock]
-[creature] Invaders.
[grunts] Show yourself!
-[creature growling faintly]
-[loud thud]
-[creature growling loudly]
-[loud growl]
[creature grunts]
[Autobot screams]
[Wheeljack grunting]
[Arcee grunting]
-[Scorponok grunts]
-[Autobot groans]
[Scorponok] Intruders shall be punished!
[grunting]
You repair Decepticons here?
Huh… Surprised?
[Scrapface sighs] I am.
[Decepticon] It's Shockwave.
Signal's going out planet-wide.
-[receiver tings]
-[static]
This message is for all Decepticon left.
Shockwave to Decepticons.
Megatron has ordered all…
[static]
[Shockwave] …to report to Kaon Arena.
We have energon,
and we are fortified to protect you.
Repeat.
Megatron has ordered
all Decepticons to Kaon Arena.
We have energon,
and we are fortified to protect you.
[receiver trills]
Shockwave's luring them to the arena to…
harvest their sparks.
There's no salvation in that transmission,
only death.
We have to stop them.
We go back together,
and we destroy the arena.
[Scrapface] And with it,
Shockwave's ability to hurt anyone again,
Decepticon or Autobot.
-Count me in.
-[Chromia] Me, too.
Same. I'm in.
Together.
[Arcee grunts]
[Scorponok] Flawed! Inferior!
[grunts]
[groans] Mirage? Prime?
-Anybody?
-[Arcee grunts]
[grunts, yells]
-[shots ricocheting]
-[Scorponok grunts]
-[Arcee grunts]
[Scorponok yelps]
[grunting]
[growls]
[Scorponok] Scant!
Meager!
-[Arcee yells]
-[Wheeljack yells]
No signs of life.
No energon.
Hard to tell with all the growth,
but it looks like most of the structures
were crushed and torn apart by something.
You are certain
no one is in the city below?
No indication of life.
Been deserted for… cycles.
-[receiver beeps]
-[charges trilling]
[Prime]
Then, we are at liberty to blow the--
Prime? Anybody?
We're in trouble! [screams]
-[Scorponok snarls]
-[Wheeljack groaning]
[Omega Supreme]
Pick on someone your own size.
[Wheeljack groans]
[Scorponok growls]
Thanks.
[tires screeching]
[Autobot 1 grunts]
[Wheeljack groans]
Cute trick.
-[Scorponok grunts]
-[Autobot 2 groans]
Deceivers!
Falsifiers!
-Wish Omega was really here.
-We don't need a Guardian.
Huh? We've got a Prime!
[Prime grunting]
[Scorponok groans]
[Prime grunts, groans]
-[Scorponok grunts]
-[Prime grunts]
[Scorponok growling]
[Prime groaning]
Autobots! Retreat!
[grunts, groans]
[grunts] Optimus!
Slaughterers!
[grunts] Get back to the Ark!
-[Prime grunts]
-[Scorponok groans]
[Prime grunts]
[both grunting]
[Prime grunting]
[Scorponok screams]
[Prime groaning]
Now I know why they abandoned the station.
-[Scorponok transforming]
-[Bumblebee] Uh-oh!
[Scorponok] Poisoned the sky.
Raining death upon us!
[Autobots grunt]
Conspiring to dismantle!
[yells]
[grunts] This is bad.
[Arcee] Autobots!
Over here! Hurry!
[Scorponok grunts, yells]
[Bumblebee grunts]
[Scorponok yells]
[Autobots panting]
[Scorponok growls]
[Autobot screams]
[Scorponok grunts]
[Bumblebee panting]
[pants] Aah!
[keypad trills]
[mechanism clanking]
[Bumblebee grunts]
[Scorponok growls]
[loud thud]
[debris crumbling]
[Bumblebee panting]
Who was that?
-What was that?
-[loud thud]
-Wheeljack, search the station schematics!
-Find us another route back to the Ark!
[monitor trilling]
[Wheeljack sighs]
Doesn't look good, Optimus.
-[loud thud]
-[metal groans]
[suspenseful music plays]
[Megatron snarls] Prime.
Weapons locked. Ready to fire.
Hold your fire.
Sir?
Prime has come to the Spacebridge
for one reason.
[Starscream] The Allspark.
We cannot risk firing on the station.
Prepare a boarding party.
I'll tear Prime to pieces
with my bare hands.
[theme music plays]